As you can imagine the list of possible
variables to control can get very long.
How do you know which variables
are truly important to control.
In this section we'll discuss
techniques to identify
which variables are the most
important to control.
Remember that the main purpose of
control variables is to make sure
that you have a good match between
treatment and control units.
So that the comparison being made
in the experiment is a good one.
Five steps should be followed to
determine which control variables should
be used to set up the experiment.
First, come up with a list
of potential variables.
Next, determine whether you
have data for those variables.
Then make sure that the connection
between the target variable and
each control variable is logical.
Next, test the correlation between
the control and target variables.
And lastly, test correlation
between other correlation variable
to avoid similar variables.
Let's walk through the process for
the new product introduction example.
Here's a short list of variables
that could affect sales of the candy
category.
Remember, we're measuring the sales of
the category because sales of the new
product could take away from
sales of existing products.
The number of products offered at the
store could be used to compare stores or
the volume of candies sold.
We may be interested in the number of
customers that visit each store, or
the number of competitive products.
The size and location of the store could
possibly be used, or the demographics of
the community around the store might
be used as control variables as well.
This may not be a comprehensive list,
but is a pretty good one to start with.
Once you have the list you first need to
identify which ones you have data for.
If you don't have data for
the variables you can't control for it.
The number of customers you stop in
the store is something that is not
likely available to the manufacturer so
let's cross it off the list.
The company probably knows how many
competitive products there are in
general.
But not which ones
are sold at each store.
So let's cross that off the list.
Now that we've eliminated
the variables that don't have data,
we need to look at
the variables logically.
The remaining variables all have
logical connections to store sales.
However, for the purpose of
this analysis, location and
demographics are likely
measuring the same thing.
Location will affect sales
because it will be related to
the demographics of the customer
shopping in the store.
Therefore, we can eliminate
one of the two variables.
Since location may encompass
many demographic variables
let's choose to keep location and
eliminate demographics.
After taking stock of
what we have access to,
the list has been narrowed to
the following possible controls.
The number of products sold and the
total volume of category sold at each
store and the size and
location of the store.
Next to test correlation
let's use Altrix.
If you're not familiar with Altrix
take a look at a few of the resources
in the instructor notes.